# 🏋️‍♂️ Gym-PTP MVP

## Gym-PTP (Personal Training Plan) Recommender System

This is a **Minimal Viable Product (MVP)** application developed for the **Intelligent Systems** course as part of **Master Academic Studies** at the **Faculty of Electronic Engineering, University of Niš**.  

The application recommends **personalized gym training programs** based on user profile, fitness goals, experience level, available equipment, desired workout program duration, and desired workout duration per workout. The system uses **classical ML models (k-Nearest Neighbors (kNN))** to find the most relevant programs for user. The best model is selected automatically and served through a FastAPI backend, with a React frontend for user interaction.

## Dataset

The project uses the https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adnanelouardi/600k-fitness-exercise-and-workout-program-dataset dataset. Note: To simply run the prediction service, you do not need to download the raw data. The necessary pre-processed data and model artifacts are already included (or generated by the notebook). This step is only required if you plan to re-run the model_exploration.ipynb notebook. In that case, you need to create a new folder called `data` in the root directory of the repository and place downloaded datased files.

## Jupyter Notebook
This notebook is located in `notebooks/` folder. It is used for dataset exploration and cleaning, as well as creating KNN model for suggesting the most relevant training program with exercises. When this notebook is run, it will generate neccessary files for model and preprocessing used in `ml-service`. 

## Starting ML prediction service
Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed: `pip install -r requirements.txt`. \
Run following command from root folder: 
```
uvicorn ml-service.main:app --reload --port 8001
```

The ML prediction service will be running at: http://127.0.0.1:8001/. You can test the API endpoints and view the documentation (Swagger UI) at http://127.0.0.1:8001/docs.